# CueR-Switch

# Biophysical model of a cell-free copper-responsive biosensor

### Introduction
This repository contains code written in the [Julia](https://www.julialang.org) programming language for the cell-free copper responsive biosensor: 

Paper Title: "Quantitative model for Copper biosensor using CueR transcription factor in cell-free systems"


### Installation and Requirements

To get the model codes, you can download this model repository as a zip file, clone or pull it using the command:

	git pull https://github.com/AravindSuresh12/CueR-Switch
or

	git clone https://github.com/AravindSuresh12/CueR-Switch

The ``src`` directory contains the code for the model, the ``data`` directory contains the experimental data, and the ``simulated`` directory contains the simulated model files. plots- contains the plots generated. ``misc`` directory contains graphs and processed data for controls, along with gene sequences. 

### Scripts- Essential
Script | Description
---: | ---
``RUN_ALL.jl`` | Runs the entire model simulation and gives outputs. 
``parameter_estimation_W_splined.jl`` | Solves the model equations for the ensemble of parameter sets for the test case, 100uM copper. Saves solutions in the ``simulated/POETS`` directory. This is the default POETS run for N=20 iterations for each SA. Other poets files are kept with their own files- see RUN_ALL.jl for directories.
``copper_dynamics_automated.jl`` | Uses the parameter ensemble generated by ``parameter_estimation_W_splined.jl`` script to simulate the TX/TL dynamics for varying copper concentrations. Saves the solutions in the ``simulated/copper_dynamics`` directory. Subdirectories within ``copper_dynamics`` hold solutions for each specified copper concentration
``dose_response_ensemble.jl`` | Solves the model equations to generate the dose response curve. Results are saved in the ``simulated/dose_response_simulations`` directory
``sensitivity_run.jl`` | Conducts [Morris sensitivity analysis](https://doi.org/10.2307%2F1269043) on the model and saves the results in the ``simulated`` directory
``Model_scores.jl``| Compares model performance for different iterations of parameter_estimation_W_splined.jl families (N=5,20 AND 100 respectively) and gives stats like RMSE, MAE 

